.TH vitapi-faq 5 2010-04-10 "vitapi 0.8.0alpha" "Library Function Manuals"

.SH NAME
task-faq \- A FAQ for the task(1) command line todo manager.
vitapi-faq \- A FAQ for the vitapi library.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Vitapi is a library that provides support for cursor motion, color, text
placement on screen, and rectangles.

.SH WELCOME
Welcome to the vitapi FAQ.  If you have would like to see a question answered
here, please send us a note at <support@vitapi.org>.

.TP
.B Q: Why would I use vitapi over ncurses?
Vitapi provides a color model that support 16- and 256-color terminals and that
alone may be why you would want to use Vitapi.  Alternately, you might not need
support for legacy terminal types, and just want something more lightweight.

.TP
.B Q: Does Vitapi support menus and panels?
Not yet, but we are working on that.

.TP
.B Q: What if my terminal is not supported?
There are two ways to handle this.  For an immediate solution, the util/termdef
program should be run, which will generate output that can be used in the
.B tapi_add
call, to dynamically patch terminal support at runtime.

The long term solution is to send a request to <support@vitapi.org> requesting
support for your terminal.  Be sure to include the $TERM value, and if possible,
the output from running util/termdef.

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
task was written by P. Beckingham <paul@beckingham.net> and
F. Hernandez <ultrafredde@gmail.com>.
.br
Copyright (C) 2010 P. Beckingham, F. Hernandez

task is distributed under the GNU General Public License.  See
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-2.0.txt for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vitapi(3),

For more information regarding Vitapi, the following may be referenced:

.TP
The official site at
<http://vitapi.org>

.TP
The official code repository at
<git://tasktools.org/task.git/>

.TP
You can contact the project by writing an email to
<support@vitapi.org>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in task may be reported to the issue-tracker at
<http://taskwarrior.org>
