.TH vitapi 3 2010-04-07 "vitapi 1.0.0" "Library Functions Manual"

.SH NAME
vitapi \- A library providing support for terminals, input and visuals.

.SH Library
.B libvitapi.a (-lvitapi)

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <vitapi.h>

color
.B color_def
(const char* def);

void
.B color_name
(char* buffer, size_t size, color c);

color
.B color_upgrade
(color c);

color
.B color_downgrade
(color c);

color
.B color_blend
(color one, color two);

void
.B color_colorize
(char* buffer, size_t size, color c);

int
.B iapi_initialize
();

void
.B iapi_deinitialize
();

void
.B iapi_echo
();

void
.B iapi_noecho
();

void
.B iapi_raw
();

void
.B iapi_noraw
();

void
.B iapi_mouse
();

void
.B iapi_nomouse
();

void
.B iapi_mouse_tracking
();

void
.B iapi_nomouse_tracking
();

void
.B iapi_mouse_pos
(int* x, int* y);

int
.B iapi_getch
();

int
.B vapi_initialize
();

void
.B vapi_deinitialize
();

int
.B vapi_refresh
();

int
.B vapi_discard
();

void
.B vapi_full_screen
();

void
.B vapi_end_full_screen
();

void
.B vapi_clear
();

void
.B vapi_moveto
(int x, int y);

void
.B vapi_text
(const char* str);

void
.B vapi_color_text
(color c, const char* str);

void
.B vapi_pos_text
(int x, int y, const char* str);

void
.B vapi_pos_color_text
(int x, int y, color c, const char* str);

void
.B vapi_rectangle
(int x, int y, int width, int height, color c);

int
.B vapi_width
();

int
.B vapi_height
();

void
.B vapi_title
(const char* str);

int
.B tapi_initialize
(const char* term);

void
.B tapi_add
(const char* term, const char* def);

void
.B tapi_get
(const char* key, char* buffer, size_t size);

void
.B tapi_get_xy
(const char* key, char* buffer, size_t size, int x, int y);

void
.B tapi_get_str
(const char* key, char* buffer, size_t size, const char* str);

int
.B vitapi_error
(char* buffer, size_t size);

.SH DESCRIPTION - COLOR
A color is simply an integer, which is created by
.B color_def
and manipulated by the other functions.

.B color color_def (const char* def);

creates a color from a definition string.  Basic color support is provided
through named colors:

    black, red, blue, green, magenta, cyan, yellow, white

Foreground color (for text) is simply specified as one of the above colors, or
not specified at all to use the default terminal text color.  Background color
is specified by using the word 'on', and one of the above colors.  Some
examples:

    color a, b, c;

    a = color_def ("green");           // green text, default background color
    b = color_def ("green on yellow"); // green text, yellow background
    c = color_def ("on yellow");       // default text color, yellow background

These colors can be modified further, by making the foreground bold, or by
making the background bright.  Some examples:

    color d, e, f;
    d = color_def ("bold green");
    e = color_def ("bold white on bright red");
    f = color_def ("on bright cyan");

The order of the words is not important, so the following are equivalent:

    color g, h;
    g = color_def ("bold green");
    h = color_def ("green bold");

    if (g == h)
    {
      // Always true.
    }

But the 'on' is important - colors before the 'on' are foreground, and colors
after 'on' are background.  There is an additional 'underline' attribute that
may be used:

    color i;
    i = color_def ("underline bright red on black");

Some combinations look very nice, some look terrible.  Different terminal
programs do implement slightly different versions of 'red', for example, so you
may see some unwanted variation due to the difference between terminal programs.
The brightness of your display is also a factor, as is the default background
color.

Using 256 colors follows the same form, but the names are different, and some
colors can be referenced in different ways.  First there is by color ordinal,
which is like this:

    color0
    color1
    color2
    ...
    color255

This gives you access to all 256 colors, but doesn't help you much.  This range
is a combination of 8 basic colors (color0 - color7), then 8 brighter variations
(color8 - color15).  Then a block of 216 colors (color16 - color231).  Then a
block of 24 gray colors (color232 - color255).

The large block of 216 colors (6x6x6 = 216) represents a color cube, which can
be addressed via RGB values from 0 to 5 for each component color.  A value of 0
means none of this component color, and a value of 5 means the most intense
component color.  For example, a bright red is specified as:

    rgb500

And a darker red would be:

    rgb300

Note that the three digits represent the three component values, so in this
example the 5, 0 and 0 represent red=5, green=0, blue=0.  Combining intense red
with no green and no blue yields red.  Similarly, blue and green are:

    rgb005
    rgb050

Another example - bright yellow - is a mix of bright red and bright green, but
no blue component, so bright yellow is addressed as:

    rgb550

A soft pink would be addressed as:

    rgb515

A block of 24 gray colors can also be accessed as gray0 - gray23, in a
continuous ramp from black to white.

If you specify 16-colors, and view on a 256-color terminal, no problem.  If you
try the reverse, specifying 256-colors and viewing on a 16-color terminal, you
will be disappointed, perhaps even appalled.

There is some limited color mapping - for example, if you were to specify this
combination:

    color c;
    c = color_def ("red on gray3");

then you are mixing a 16-color and 256-color specification.  Vitapi will map red
to color1, and proceed.  Note that red and color1 are not quite the same on
almost all terminals.

Note also that there is no bold or bright attributes when dealing with 256
colors, but there is underline available.

.B void  color_name (char*, size_t, color);

.B color color_upgrade (color);

.B color color_downgrade (color);

.B color color_blend (color, color);

.B void  color_colorize (char*, size_t, color);

.SH DESCRIPTION - IAPI

.B int  iapi_initialize ();

.B void iapi_deinitialize ();

.B void iapi_echo ();

.B void iapi_noecho ();

.B void iapi_raw ();

.B void iapi_noraw ();

.B void iapi_mouse ();

.B void iapi_nomouse ();

.B void iapi_mouse_tracking ();

.B void iapi_nomouse_tracking ();

.B void iapi_mouse_pos (int*, int*);

.B int  iapi_getch ();

.SH DESCRIPTION - VAPI

.B int  vapi_initialize ();

.B void vapi_deinitialize ();

.B int  vapi_refresh ();

.B int  vapi_discard ();

.B void vapi_full_screen ();

.B void vapi_end_full_screen ();

.B void vapi_clear ();

.B void vapi_moveto (int, int);

.B void vapi_text (const char*);

.B void vapi_color_text (color, const char*);

.B void vapi_pos_text (int, int, const char*);

.B void vapi_pos_color_text (int, int, color, const char*);

.B void vapi_rectangle (int, int, int, int, color);

.B int  vapi_width ();

.B int  vapi_height ();

.B void vapi_title (const char*);

.SH DESCRIPTION - TAPI

.B int  tapi_initialize (const char*);

.B void tapi_add (const char*, const char*);

.B void tapi_get (const char*, char*, size_t);

.B void tapi_get_xy (const char*, char*, size_t, int, int);

.B void tapi_get_str (const char*, char*, size_t, const char*);

.SH DESCRIPTION - Errors

.B int vitapi_error (char*, size_t);




.SH EXAMPLES

.SH ERRORS

.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
Vitapi was written by P. Beckingham <paul@beckingham.net>,
F. Hernandez <ultrafredde@gmail.com>.
.br
Copyright (C) 2010 \- 2016, Göteborg Bit Factory.

Vitapi is distributed under the MIT license. See
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vitapi-faq(5),

For more information regarding vitapi, the following may be referenced:

.TP
The official site at
<http://vitapi.org>

.TP
The official code repository at
<https://git.tasktools.org/scm/ut/vitapi.git>

.TP
You can contact the project by writing an email to
<support@vitapi.org>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in vitapi may be reported to the issue-tracker at
<http://taskwarrior.org>

